# CITE_seq_IL27_Legionella <h1>
Code for manuscript: <h2> The IL-27/IL-27RA Axis Reprograms Lymphocyte Subsets to Determine the Outcome of Legionellosis </h2>
Johannes Platten<sup>1</sup>, Archana Jayaraman<sup>2</sup>, Sarah Walachowski<sup>1,2</sup>, Kevin Brück<sup>1</sup>, Arjun Sharma<sup>1,2</sup>, Kara Vasilew<sup>2</sup>, Fedoua Echahidi<sup>3</sup>, Clemens Ruppert<sup>4</sup>, Andreas Guenther<sup>4</sup>, Veronika Sexl<sup>5</sup>, Dario Zamboni<sup>6</sup> and Markus Bosmann<sup>1,2,*</sup>

<sup>1</sup>Center for Thrombosis and Hemostasis, University Medical Center Mainz, 55131 Mainz, Germany; <sup>2</sup>Pulmonary Center, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02118 USA; <sup>3</sup>Laboratory of Microbiology, University Medical Center Brussels, Belgium; <sup>4</sup>Universities of Giessen and Marburg Lung Center (UGMLC), Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), 35394, Giessen, Germany; <sup>5</sup>Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Veterinary Medicine of Vienna, 1210 Vienna, Austria; <sup>6</sup>Department of Cell Biology, School of Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil.
- *Corresponding Author: Markus Bosmann M.D., Associate Professor of Medicine, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Pulmonary Center, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, 02118, USA. Phone: +1-617-358-1225; FAX: +1-617-638-5227; Email: mbosmann@bu.edu

<h3> Abstract </h3>
Interleukin-27 (IL-27) is a heterodimeric cytokine of the IL-12 family that functions through the IL-27Rα and gp130 receptors. IL-27 exerts contextual pro- and anti-inflammatory functions, which remain incompletely resolved. Here, we report lymphocyte-specific roles for IL-27 signaling in the lung during Legionella pneumonia. IL-27 was significantly higher in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with Legionnaires’ disease compared to healthy controls. Moreover, BALF from mice infected with Legionella showed a rapid induction of IL-27 after infection through multiple immunological pathways. Infected mice with a global genetic deletion of IL-27Rα lost significantly less body weight as a surrogate for disease severity, showed elevated NK and T cell activity and higher plasma IFNγ concentrations. Legionella longbeachae infection showed similar findings and better survival in IL-27Rα-/- mice. Notably, IL-27 regulated immunopathology rather than bacterial burden. Expression of co-stimulatory receptors was collectively higher than co-inhibitory receptors in IL-27Rα-/- T and NK cells versus wild type mice during legionellosis studied by CITE-seq. Interestingly, NK cell-specific deletion of IL-27Rα resulted in a more severe disease course with increased weight loss and disease scores, reduced NK cell activation and decreased IFNγ in the BALF. In conclusion, these data suggest that cell type-specific targeting of IL-27Rα activity could be explored as a novel, immunomodulatory concept for Legionnaires’ disease. 

<h3> About the repository: </h3>
<li> This repository contains the codes used for analysis of CITE-seq data (single cell RNA + surface protein antibody derived tag [ADT]) sequencing experiment by Dr. Johannes Platten and Dr. Sarah Walachowski. </li> 
<li>The experiment involved BALF from three wild type (WT; samples BM_WS_5, BM_WS_6, BM_WS_8) and three IL27RA knockout mice (IL27RAko; samples BM_WS_9, BM_WS_10, BM_WS_15). </li>
<li> Mice were infected for 48h with JR32 strain of Legionella pneumophila and then BALF cells were collected by Johannes and, frozen and shipped for further staining, FACSorting and sequencing by Sarah. Sequencing was performed at the Boston University Single Cell Sequencing Core. </li>
<li> Neutrophils were sorted out before Totalseq antibodies staining, so no neutrophil clusters are expected in the analysis. </li>
<li> The sequencing experiment included two libraries per sample: 1 ADT and 1 GEX. </li>
<li> A total of 198 custom BioLegend TotalSeq A ADTs were used. </li>

